Oh
I'm Jay I'm Tom your VI MTV velocities
in music the best-kept secret in music
reviews we're continuing our tour of 90s
you know seminal albums from the 90s you
know big big albums that a lot of people
including me personally I think Tom's
heard all of these before cuz i love you
guys know this this guy is the biggest
music nerd around he knows so much about
music and has influenced my music tastes
so much you know I really have him to
thank for everything that he's done for
me today we're going to review pulled
different class which is a big album for
the Britpop yet Tom you love Britpop it
was like one of your favorite genres
yeah tell us about it well this I think
that pulp has a very interesting place
in the Britpop movement because not only
were they part of it with this album
coming out in 1995 being very critically
acclaimed very popular you know the same
year that blur came out great escape and
Oasis came out with what's the story
morning glory it kind of the height of
everything and this one is you know on
on par with those albums really but but
they have an interesting place in that
history simply because they were around
since the early 80s even before like
Stone Roses were you know and some of
those other bands that helped influence
it so it's like not only were they part
of the movement and kind of getting the
attention that those other bands were
but they helped influence those same
bands that brought them down movement to
fame yeah um but but really I think that
Paul pad is is kind of in a different
class you know which I which actually is
where that same comes from the jarvis
jarvis cocker then i was gonna not be
able to say that later really yeah well
i took it from you and I'm glad cuz you
probably would have made us sound a lot
more cheesy than I just did absolutely
take it yeah that's right okay anyways
um he's you know this this band has such
a different personality to it because of
Jarvis I think and and he's so he's so
over sexualized so exuberant so women
Jarvis Cocker of course it this album is
gonna be just that maybe buoyantly
sexual Jarvis Cocker in that anyway
kind of theatrics it almost reminds me
more of we reviewed remember the Divine
Comedy oh yeah for chaminade for sure
and them in just the kind of
orchestration of and presentation but i
also get a lot of bowie i also get a lot
of roxy music no brian eno um i get a
lot of that influence which would make
sense with more of their earlier stuff
actually but they pulled it into that
rip pop's scene yeah but but you know
don't get me wrong this is still also
very very much a rock album there's lots
of intense moments like a race variety
too well yeah you hear a lot of those
more rock song for you also hear songs
that are more poppy in nature that you
would hear in the Britpop movement so it
has a nice flow to it a nice balance I
me they even the song you know it wasn't
is clearly my least favorite track on
the album but just to show kind of like
their versatility disco 2000 I mean
that's a very poppy song when you start
with like Miss shapes which really is
kind of more rock-oriented song huh so I
I love the versatility that they show
but I mean to me Tom one of the things
that really you know put different class
in a different class haha I still did it
then the rest of the Brit pop albums is
that you know like he's creating Jarvis
Cocker is creating these
characterizations and Rihanna kind of
painting a picture of everything of what
life was like in you know in what i
meant i haven't never been there um in
in you know kind of middle class britain
in like the mid 90s and stuff I mean I I
really do feel like sometimes it's good
cuz like you're seeing these really
intimate personal moments in the way
that he liked constructs his lyrics and
everything it's very specific to that
that british dialect and you know
honestly it's like you're there it's
like you're peeking through yet windows
exactly like their intimate moments but
but either the common people rushing you
know of course there's a crack on here
but it's like like the person that you
would pass just walking down the street
and not seeing and not think anything of
it's like you're seeing you know the
what's happening behind you has doors
through them and that's a really cool
look and I think that that because of
that unique take I fit in also because
of his just a commanding presentation
yeah i think that Jarvis's vocals is
definitely the the center to focus the
rice album not that
instrumentals aren't good though and now
that there's a lot of variety in the way
they're arranged and composed and
performed but I think that what Jarvis
does spectacularly is take the
instrumental foundation that the band
gives him and work with it I mean you
listen you know you talked about the
variety on this album and and you
compare like tracks four and five I spy
and disco 2000 I spy has almost more of
a sinister kind of brooding field and he
makes the vocals and the end the the
vocal presentation and the lyrics he
really makes it match that absolutely
and then go in like disco 2000 he tells
the story about this girl named Deborah
you know and and it matches the whimsy
really matches the how the instrumentals
work and he is so good at doing that
throughout the entire album yeah and
what I love is like later one of my
favorite tracks on this out of albums
sorted for ease and it is one of the
most like intimate songs on the out like
I really felt like that showed their you
know emotional diversity and overall I
mean the more that I listened to this
album the more I just want to keep
listening to it it really has a charm to
it that I can't get over I'm in and you
know I know you said they when you were
listening this album like you wanted you
felt that in a kind of plateaued for you
it never really plateaued for me it just
looks like the more I listen to it the
more I appreciate it and like it which I
actually find with a lot of the Britpop
you have your albums from the Britpop
see most of blurs works well be because
I think that I think the reason for that
is because bands like pulp and blur
they're very much thinking man's pop
yeah and that's hard for people to grasp
because they hear it at first and they
hear that pop sheen and it's very
attractive and then I think that the
average listener can kind of get
confused by it because there is a more
artistic stand behind it it's so much
more complicated than like what we now
know as American pop which is so focused
on repetition and structure and lyric
and you know melodies and hook so again
it's a completely different class of pop
music that takes a while to understand
and getting too yeah but when you do
it's more rewarding because of that yeah
I really like this album tom i'm
thinking i'm gonna go 87 on I'm gonna go
90 yeah
it's a good album I mean what do you
guys think what's your favorite Brit pop
album Pope was one of the most requested
bands I think of any of any band that
we've you know done recently that we've
reviewed recently I think Pope was one
of the most requested yeah so it was
really exciting to get to jump in and I
feel like we've done Britpop justice now
yeah and you know we hear still some
left but but there always will be sales
will be that's kind of the beauty of
reviewing music guys thank you for your
participation please please leave us
comments at WWDC music com or
youtube.com slash velocities and music
as always follow us on twitter like us
on facebook um and you know just leave
us a comment start a conversation give
us your request you guys rock thank you
for participating i'm jake i'm tom and
we r VI mtv movie music critique forward
for
people